# Xiu Ting's Cold Brew Guide

Hello, and welcome to my very unnecessary guide to cold brew. I will include links of other guides I have read but otherwise everything else is my own strange experimentation...so no guarantees. I am by no means a professional coffee human being but this has been a source of solace and sanity amidst completing college during a global pandemic. 

# The Base

1000ml of distilled room temperature water 

5-6 heaping tablespoons of cold brew ground coffee 

- I suggest medium to dark roast for a thicker mouthfeel and a more fragrant brew since no heat is involved
- Some notes I look out for that have worked well: licorice, chocolate, maple

### The Process

Usually, I mix any additions (refer to next section) into the coffee grounds while dry before adding the liquid. I find this helps with a more even distribution of the flavour. Afterwards, I cover the container with cling wrap (you can also use beeswax wrap) to seal the container and leave it in a dry, non-sunny location for ~3 hours. This allows the flavours to develop a stronger and fuller taste outside of the cold 🥶 fridge. Then it goes into the fridge for 12-24 hours. 

Use a french press, cheesecloth or coffee filter to filter out the beans return to your container of choice. Seal again and this keeps for ~5 days. 

# Additions

After a week or so, I started experimenting with including different flavours into the cold brew. The biggest gripe with cold brew most people who are familiar with espresso based coffee usually have is the lack of dimension or acidity of cold brew. (The latter works great for me since I have a tendency for gastric...) So one way to work through that is to well, manually add other textures! 

Here is a non-exhaustive list because my memory fails me: 

1. Cinnamon powder 
2. Brown sugar
3. Vanilla extract 
4. Molasses 
5. Gula Melaka shavings
6. Maple syrup 
7. Chai 
8. Lavender buds  

Next on my list to try is Earl Grey loose leaf tea in a light-medium citrus roast coffee. Will update!

# Toppings

Some that I have tried include condensed milk or evaporated milk, frothy milk (also thanks to the french press!) and good old regular milk for a smooth morning drink.

**⚡UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES USE CHOCOLATE MILK IT WAS NOT GOOD⚡**

*Thanks for coming to the end! Message me on Instagram @xiu.ting to let me know how it goes.*
